# COMPARATIVE-STUDY-OF-DIFFERENT-MACHINE-LEARNING-MODELS-FOR-SALES-PREDICTION-AND-FRAUD-DETECTION

## Introduction:
In recent years, the rise of the Internet of things (IoT) as an emerging technology has been unbelievable, more companies are moving towards the adoption of these technologies and many IoT sensors are being deployed to share information in real-time which leads to 
the generation of a huge amount of data. This data when used correctly, will be very helpful to the company to discover hidden patterns for better decision making in the future. For example, with the DataCo company, dataset customer segmentation analysis was performed in  this project which helps the company to better understand its customers and target them to increase customer responsiveness and the 
company's revenue. With a lot of options available to analyze data, it is very difficult to decide which method and machine learning  model to use since the performance of the model vary on the parameters available in the data.With the growth of machine learning, there 
have been numerous comparison studies that compare the performance of neural networks with traditional linear techniques for forecasting. 
For example, author Carbonneau et al. (2007) in his research work compared various traditional forecasting time-series like moving average, linear regression with recurrent neural networks and support vector machines and concluded that recurrent neural networks performed best. Hill et al. (1996) have also considered the M-competition data and have compared between neural networks and traditional methods. Vakili et al. (2020) evaluated the performance of 11 popular machine and deep learning algorithms for classification task using six IoT-related datasets and concluded that Random Forests performed better than other machine learning models, while among deep learning models, ANN and CNN achieved more interesting results. Some other authors like Ahmed et al. (2010) did study comparing different regression models and concluded that the MLP model and Gaussian process models are the best two models for regression type data. But no study that compared both Classification type ML models and Regression type ML models against the Neural Network models with the same dataset was found.
This project aims to compare 9 popular machine learning classifiers and 7 regressors type machine learning models and measure their performance against neural network models to find out which machine learning model performs better. Since the dataset used is related to supply chain important parameters are identified and the machine learning models are trained with the dataset for detection of fraud transactions, late delivery of orders, sales revenue and quantity of products which customer orders. The machine learning classifiers used in this project are Logistic Regression,Linear Discriminant Analysis, Gaussian Naive Bayes, Support Vector Machines, k - Nearest Neighbors, Random Forest classification, Extra Trees classification,Extreme Gradient Boosting, Decision Tree classification for fraud detection and to predict late delivery on the basis accuracy,recall score and F1 score. The regression models used are Lasso, Ridge, Light Gradient boosting, Random Forest regression, Extreme Gradient Boosting regression, Decision Tree Regression, and Linear Regression to predict sales and quantity of the products required which are compared with mean absolute error (MAE) and root mean squareerror (RMSE).

## Data Collection
The dataset used in this project is maintained transparently with the Creative Commons 4.0 license by Fabian Constante, Fernando Silva,and António Pereira through the Mendeley data repository. The dataset consists of roughly 180k transactions from supply chains used by the company DataCo Global for 3 years. The dataset can be downloaded from:
https://data.mendeley.com/datasets/8gx2fvg2k6/5
